Henry Buchanan
Professor Smith
ENG 110
6 May 2026

Rhetorical Statement

Audience
The audience I had in mind for this website is pretty much your average person who has some connection to Catholicism but doesn’t know a lot about the history behind the Mass changing in the 1960s. That could be someone who grew up Catholic, someone who still goes to church but never really thought about why things are the way they are, or even just someone who is curious about religion in general. I wasn’t trying to write for theologians or people who already know this stuff. I wanted someone who has maybe heard the words “Latin Mass” before but had no idea what that actually meant or why some people care so much about it to be able to read this and actually understand it.

Purpose
The main purpose was just to inform people. My research paper argued that the changes made to the Catholic Mass after Vatican II went further than the Church council actually intended, and that a big reason for that was one man named Archbishop Bugnini who had a lot of influence over how the new Mass was designed. I also argued that this contributed to why so many Catholics today don’t believe in the Real Presence anymore, which is kind of the central thing the Church teaches about the Eucharist. I wanted people to come away from the website understanding that this wasn’t just some random thing that happened, there were real decisions made by real people that led to where things are today. I think a lot of Catholics don’t know any of this and I thought it was worth putting out there in a way that was easy to follow.

Method
I chose to make a website because I thought it was the best way to present this kind of argument. A podcast wouldn’t have worked as well because a lot of the evidence involves quotes and images that you really need to see. A single blog post felt like it would be too long and hard to get through. With a website I was able to break things up into sections so it doesn’t feel overwhelming and people can kind of read at their own pace.

The biggest thing I changed from my original essay was the language. My paper was written for an academic audience so I used a lot of terms that I didn’t really explain because I assumed the reader would know them. On the website I tried to define things like transubstantiation and explain who Vatican II was and what Sacrosanctum Concilium actually said, because someone just browsing a website is not going to have that background. I also included pictures throughout because I thought it helped make the argument feel more real and grounded instead of just being a wall of text about Church history.

I kept the Works Cited page on the website because I wanted people to be able to see where the information was coming from. I think that matters especially with a topic like this where people might be skeptical or think it’s just someone’s opinion. The sources back up what I’m saying and I wanted that to be visible. Overall I tried to keep the website simple and focused so that the argument could come through clearly without a lot of distractions.
